
Book I, I

First paragraph: the difficulty of persuading others, especially when defending
the current state.

Paraphrase:

For anyone trying to persuade others that they are not governed as well 
as they could be, does not want attentive and favorable audience. 
Because they know the many defects that are abundant in every kind of regiment, 
but of the secret compromises and difficulties, which in public proceedings are 
numerous and inevitable, they have no judgement to consider.
And because the openly criticism to the supposed disorders of state is
considered to be good to the common benifit of all and especially to those , 
whatever they say will pass as good and current. 


================================
Book I, I, paraphrase:

He that goes about to persuade a multitude that they are not so well governed 
as they ought to be, would never lack attentive and favorable hearers; because 
many know the manifold defects whereunto every kind of regiment is subject; 
However, the secret lets and difficulties, which in public proceedings are 
innumerable and inevitable, these men have no judgment to consider. 

And because those who openly criticize the supposed disorders of state are taken
for principal friends to the common benefit of all people, and for men that
carry singular freedom of mind; under this fair and plausible assumption
whatsoever they say would pass for good and genuine [current]. 

What is lacking in the weight of their speech, is supplied by the readiness of
men's minds to accept and believe it.

Whereas on the other side, if we maintain things that are established, we 
not only have to strive with a number of heavy prejudices deeply rooted in the
hearts of men, who think that herein we serve the time, and speak in favour of
the present state, because thereby we either hold or seek preferment; but also to
bear such dislike as minds so averted beforehand usually take against that which
they are loath should be poured into them. 

Albeit therefore much of that we are to speak in this present cause may seem to
a number of people perhaps tedious, perhaps obscure, dark, and intricate;
(for many talk of the truth, which never mentioned the depth from whence it
springs; and therefore when they are led thereunto they are soon weary, just
like men drawn from those beaten paths they have been inured;) 
yet this many not succeed to cut off what the matter itself requires, howsoever
some people like it or not.

Those who may find us tedious would not necessarily be injured by us, for they
may decide themselves whether to spare the labour which they are not willing to
take.

And if they complain of obscurity, they must consider, that in these matters it
is just like in many works of art and of nature, where what has greatest force
in the very things we see is notwithstanding itself often unseen.
The stateliness of houses, the goodliness of trees, when we see them delights
the eye; but that foundation which bears up the one, that root which ministers
unto the other nourishment and life, is in the bosom of earth concealed;
and if there be at any occasion a need to search for it, such labour is more
necessary than pleasant, both to them which undertake the search and the
lookers-on.

In like manner, the use and benefit of good laws all that live under them
may enjoy with delight and comfort, albeit the grounds and original causes from
which they have sprung be unknown, as to the greater part of men they are.

But when they who withdraw their obedience pretend that the laws which they
should obey are corrupt and vicious, for better examination of their quality, it
behoves the very foundation and root, the hightest wellspring and fountain of
them to be discovered.

Which because we are not often accustomed to do, when we do it the pains we take
are a great deal more needful than acceptable, and the matters which we handle
seem by reason of newness (till the mind grow better acquanted with them) dark,
intricate, and unfamiliar.

To provide as much help as possible, I have endeavoured throughout this whole
book, that every former part might give strength unto all that follow, and every
later bring some light unto all before.

So that if the judgments of men do but hold themselves in suspense as touching
these first more general meditations, till in order they have perused the rest
that ensue; what may seem dark at the first will afterwards be found more plain,
even as the later particular decisions will appear I doubt not more strong, when
the other have been read before.

The laws of the Church, whereby for so many ages together we have been guided in
the exercise of Christian religion and the service of the true God, our rites,
customs, and orders of ecclesiastical government, are called in question: we are
accused as men that will not have Jesus Christ to rule over them, but have
wilfully cast his statues behind their backs, hating to be reformed and made
subject unto the sceptre of his discipline.

Behold therefore we offer the laws whereby we live unto the general trial and
judgment of the whole world; heartily beseeching Almighty God, whom we desire to
serve according to his own will, that both we and others (all kind of partial
affection being clean laid aside) may have eyes to see and hearts to embrace the
things that in his sight are most acceptable.

And because the point about which we strive is the quality of our laws, our
first entrance hereinto cannot better be made, than with consideration of the
the nature of law in general, and of that law which gives life unto all the
rest, which are commendable, just, and good; namely the law whereby the Eternal
himself does work.

Proceeding from hence to the law, first of Nature, then of Scripture, we shall
have the easier access unto those things which come after to be debated,
concerning the particular cause and question which we have in hand.

All things that are, have some operation not violent or casual.
[All things that exist, have some operation not violent or accidental.]

Neither doth any thing ever begin to exercise the same, without some
fore-conceived end for which it worketh.
[Nor does any thing ever begin to exercise the same operation, without some
fore-conceived end for which it works.]

For unto every end every operation will not serve.

That which doth assign unto each thing the kind, that which doth moderate the
force and power, that which doth appoint the form and measure, of working, the
same we term a Law.

So that no certain end could ever be attained, unless the actions whereby it is
attained were regular; that is to say, made suitable, fit, and correspondent
unto their end, by some canon, rule, or law.

Which thing doth first take place in the works even of God himself.
